friends here.
We're going to discuss a boat.
Loops.
Basically,
loops are useful to execute a block off court many times.
Why we need eggs.
Good.
Some block off court or number off lines.
Or maybe sometimes one line.
Why?
We need to exclude many number of times,
right?
See that?
Let me take one simple example first.
So I'm going to save my programmers some introduction to lose the people.
Now,
let me take my list.
You can take with any example.
I'm picking somebody as a list.
This is a list.
No.
My intention is I want to take one by one value from my list and then I want to print.
Right?
So first,
let me take one by one value from my list.
See,
this is your foster value.
Universalist taking one way yuan value.
Then after taking that,
I want to print it.
Yes,
I am bending support in this way.
Then I want to take one more value than printed.
Then Then we have one more value than let me do it.
That's it.
I'll admit an agency.
The output?
No,
I assume that I hold Suppose two more values in my list then as off no.
Whatever the court we how?
Because of that,
we are getting only 1st 3 values.
Now I need to take fourth value and then 50 value and I want to print there late Monday
Fourth value for value indexes.
Three.
I'm taking 100.
I'm printing,
then Same way How to take 50 value and then I want to print it.
So taking your foot 50 value within the next four on.
Then I am printing.
I'll see here you are taking one by one value from your list and then you are printing
taking second blue printing,
taking dollar value printing right,
taking 4 12 and then printing.
Breaking 50 well on imprinting who want your ring.
Same action you're repeating again and again immediately.
Of course it is correct.
But instead of repeating your logic again and again immediately,
we know what if you get this type of situation at the time,
Python is providing one.
Excellent.
The syntax for us.
What is that mean?
Simply Luke.
Why it is calling a movement.
See taking,
printing,
taking,
printing.
You are repeating same action by So it's simply a loop.
No.
First,
let me write my syntax So while writing syntax,
what I'm writing is for each value.
This is a variable case.
You can take anything,
interrupt each other.
You can take X rays,
er in your list.
So in separating list as off No.
For your understanding purpose You conveyed your variable name or that if you can also
write the one list no problem,
but will use same result.
Right?
Fine.
Then offer that inside off your Lou.
What was the logic?
You want to repeat that tree logic in it too?
Right inside off a loop now for is a loop inside of the loopy hard right.
Your logic which has to repeat so inside a for loop.
If you underwrite,
you need to provide some space.
So actually,
what is our intention?
Ease print e Were each value first under the output for your wind Again,
you're going to get all your values.
You can increase it.
Let me increase my list off values here.
If I increase this main number of values,
right,
I'm not going to write extra print statements.
I'm doing this action requirement with only one print statement.
See the result right then how your loop is going to work.
See why nobody feel on your bite on skip.
Anyway,
This We're not using this variable.
Don't worry aboard that.
What is there?
Right?
So whenever Pitre and identifies this word called for our key work,
then immediately or Brighton will go and look here.
What is there after we were in as off?
No,
it is a list.
That's why very first of all,
it will take your bite on on that valuable assigned to this variable so that what you're
doing,
you're taking faster value with help off your for on that value we're printing so that
you're getting first value after completion off the lines or line which are there under
river for Lou.
Then you're fightin will go on.
Take that Italy Second value on this value will going to store and they were each.
Then again,
we're bringing that.
Then second values were then you're part and will goto on take third value on this value
will go on and store into this variable on.
We're printing something.
What?
We're printing same variable we're printing.
Likewise.
You're repeating this action for all values once.
If your values are warmer than your bite on will stop this loop.
Execution off this loop.
Right,
guys,
what you're doing here you are repeating taking a value,
storing that value India variable and then printing that variable then taking for storing
that in the each variable and printing that taking,
fight,
storing and each variable and then printing.
So you are repeating here itself.
You are logic,
right?
So the repetition each and every repetition is called one alteration innovation.
Right.
So,
doctor duration we are using in your loops.
This conference will now be recorded
friends
here.
We're going to discuss a boat loops.
First of all,
loops are useful to repeat some block to execute a block off court many times.
Why we need to execute a block off court many times.
Block off court.
Nothing but maybe a single line or multiple alliance.
But why?
We need to eggs good again and again This block off court.
What is the need?
Right?
Let me explain this with the 1st 1 Simple example,
right?
See,
I'm goingto say we a program named Coral introduction to lose the baby weight.
And here what I'm doing is I'm taking some list somewhere.
I didn't that I have a list off some values.
No year,
actually.
Have a small requirement,
Not requirement is I need to bring the values off your list one by one.
Not after time.
All your entire list.
I mean,
I don't want to print your values in this way.
You're getting on board as a list.
No,
I don't want to print in that way.
I want to print faster for then five,
then six.
Then what you're doing to get that?
First,
you are to take festival from your list with index.
I'm taking First of all,
you.
Then I want to take second value than I want to print it.
So taking second well,
is nothing but my list off one.
Then you're printing.
Then take toward Value 100 printed.
See that put?
Yes.
You're getting one by one value.
Okay for this list,
suppose you're having three prints treatments,
just our gender.
You know,
at least you How some This many number off values?
No,
I need to write a home.
Any number of prince statements,
how many values you have in your list?
That many number off prince statements I need to write.
So finally,
what is the purpose to write your prince statement that many number of times simply You're
taking one by one value from your list on your printing.
That taking second blueprint the third value fourth value 50 lug ways You are taking one by
100 or printing it.
So if we have a more number of values in your least unit,
right,
More number of prince statements I don't want right in that because python is providing not
only bite on in all languages,
we held this concept anyway.
Bite on is providing a simple logic just to take one by one value from your list just to
take one by one value from your list.
How you can take one by one value from your list automatically,
right?
See that as off?
No.
For you were Mr any purpose.
Currently I am writing a syntax call for each value in your list.
So you converted your variable.
Here are you can also read directly your list.
Both will find for time being am reading.
They really were variable.
Sorry your values then after that your great colon then and the first of all what these you
are What is the action off your for here means because off this,
for what it will do moment,
it will take one by one value from your list.
First,
it will take four.
Number four on it will store automatically into your very will.
Call each variable offer that in case if you write any number off lines inside off,
your for these lines will exclude ones.
Then,
after execution off this part ones your python will automatically takes second value on
this valley will go on the story and Dodi then whatever the lines,
you how under they were for those lanes will execute so as off.
No,
My intention is I want to print all the values,
right?
That's why what I'm doing is simply print each value so that this print is nothing but just
your printing.
Your each value variable each value a variable.
In this you have some value.
And I am writing this prince treatment under your for Luke under They were for Luke.
So because off this what will happen means observed that we're number if you run your pipe
down strip,
imagine that there is no first line has off no margin that there is no first line.
Okay,
then whenever there is a key word at the very first in a given line by ton will immediately
go on.
Look after in whatever it is,
they're forced.
Your partner will absurdities?
Yes,
it is a list.
That's why in list,
whatever the value,
we hope faster value that valley will automatically store into that No very first time
You're each value each value variable east number four on offer.
Taking that What would the number off lines you?
How inside off your for those lands.
Legs?
Good ones.
But as off No,
I'm taking only one line.
So while excluding that line what I'm doing I am bringing the variable off each well,
whatever you hope in this.
So that what you will get you will get number four right?
Then after printing offered exclusion,
all for this line you're fighting will automatically take second value on this valley will
store into this variable.
After storing your second value indo this variable this block will exclude one second But
while excluding what we're doing this variable valley we're printing.
That's why you're going to get second value like ways your python will take one by one
value from here on that valuable store in tow.
This variable first offer that only this block will excuse.
So because of dark,
see what it is doing.
You're getting all well,
this one by one after running your court.
So no,
that's actually what you're doing.
I mean,
your python taking foster value,
storing into that,
excluding this block,
then taking second value,
storing into this variable than excluding this law.
Ah,
block taking third value,
storing into this variable and then executing this block,
she got a building here itself.
Right?
That's where this is like a loop.
That's why this is called Luke.
And one more thing executing your block off course,
right?
With help off your Lou.
How many number of times?
How many number off lose you?
How?
Inside off a list.
That many number of times you are repeating on each repetition is called iteration.
It'll ation right.
So supple.
Assume that in my list I have four values.
Just a gender.
Then you're going to it.
Rate it rate this logic,
this line You're going to repeat this line.
Four number off times are four.
IT rations will be happened if you have four values.
Not only this,
simply your variable.
See,
I can also do something like Prince in this way.
Just I'm doing this one.
Let me invite three prints treatments.
Not only print statements,
you can write anything but as off,
not just for our understanding.
Purpose.
I'm writing simple lines.
No,
let me remove this list.
Okay.
Very firstly,
Itself or loop.
I don't want this man number of values.
Let me write.
Suppose three values,
Same action will be repeat for all values.
In case if you have any number of Alice,
know what will happen?
Fascinating.
Whenever If you're executing,
your python will look very first world right?
If it is a far than for is a loop,
that's why you're fighting will immediately look in the same line after in whatever you
have,
your pattern will look that place first.
Then what you're having here list which consist off three values.
Then python will emerge to take foster value on this world little store into this variable
After studying that the number off lines which you how inside off your loop.
Those lines will exclude ones while excluding in case If you want to you this variable,
you can use it.
Otherwise no problem As off no pre print statements forced to print statement simply some
string You're printing second Prince Chairman Your branding some variable value that value
is nothing but the valley which is there currently in this variable.
Then after that,
we are getting our printing.
This like No,
let me write a different symbol.
So that will be clear for you.
No,
like meat and you can see the output first time.
Second time third time You are repeating your logic three times.
This is for first time.
This is for second time,
and this is for third time while repeating while excluding this first time value.
This variable is for and we're executing their That's why you're getting output as a four.
No,
I don't want to use this each variable inside off my loop.
Yes,
money to use that.
It's not mannered.
Repairs on requirement will use it.
I am writing simply.
This sees a generation anymore,
says also I converted.
Let me save it.
Another the output I'm running while excluding first time.
Three print statements high for iPhone,
the his reiteration and then some lane.
That is for each value for then second time five early.
We defy you are repeating this sixth year reporting that that's why I'm getting three times
.
So this year not only take,
I mean you can take any variable.
Not only each value I can take simply excels.
Oh,
no problem.
So don't put not sick.
Okay,
so this is called simply were for Luke.
So finally,
you have to understand that this for loop is useful to repeat some block off corps or some
sort off lines based on your requirement How many times you want to repeat?
So that is decided by the value which you're providing here.
Not only list.
You can take some other things as well.
I will show you that.
Right?
Fine.
So why look for useful guys?
So,
in all programming languages,
we have a requirement to exclude some block off court number off times many times so that
we were using loops concepts,
no invite on.
We have two types off loops for Lupin.
Well,
you okay?
No,
for Luke,
for Lupin by Tunney's usedto it great.
Our execute many number of times over a sequence that sequence maybe a list or topple
lasting or any other terrible objects as off.
No,
don't worry about the terrible objects.
You're going to repeat some block off court using loop on while repeating.
See,
previously we use somewhere here list,
right?
Not only list You can also provide a list.
Couple are a string.
Let me show you that this is using list,
right?
I can also use,
you know,
loop a couple also.
No problem that we do that now with help off couple four value in this is a variable gaze.
You can take anything based on your requirement in your topple.
Let me write charity.
My couple 456 Then come on high.
Know how many values are there in your temple?
Four values.
This is a string,
but this string is the one value for the work Couple four values.
But no,
simply I'm writing print high are simply I'm reading this equal Then because off your loo
for Luke you are repeating this line.
You're printing this line.
You're repeating this line.
How many miles you have?
Four values.
So four times you're going toe.
Exclude this line again and again immediately.
No seat output four times you're getting but why excluding the block,
which is there under your loop at that time?
In case if you need a variable value off value,
you can use it.
No.
See that not to.
So whether you want to use your variable,
whatever you hear that variable,
you can use it or you can skip it,
right?
No.
Let me do one simple example.
Imagine that.
Yeah.
Before,
before going toe that example I will take one more thing.
String.
As of now,
we worked with the list of top will then let with extreme.
After that,
I will go with one example for let me take you for each character in Let me take fight on
scripting space is also your string right then,
Colon.
Then what I'm doing is print each character are.
If you don't want to do that,
let me simply simply fight on.
Okay,
then simply print.
I'm bringing hyphens.
So no,
you are going to repeat this line based on how many characters are there.
Niggle string.
So how it is going to rip?
It means immediately whenever If you run your pipe landscape because this is a loop for
your partner will take first a character from here.
If it is a list,
it will take first of value from your list.
Or if it is a trouble,
it will take first value from your trouble.
But now this is a string,
so it will take First.
The character automatically on that character will store into this variable after storing
that whatever the logic,
whatever that block,
what are the lines you have under?
They were Luke.
Those lines will exclude ones while executing.
If you want to use this variable,
you can use it.
Otherwise you can skip it as off.
No,
I am not using simply what I'm doing.
See that?
Put your getting hyphens.
How many times?
Six time?
Because you're six characters Know what I'm doing is along with your high funds.
I'm also going toe.
Bring the characters which is stored in your each character.
Variable.
No,
citizen B Y t hatchway In the first time you're fighting is taking letter p character p and
it is storing into this variable.
After storing into this variable,
this line will execute once frustration.
This is called foster situation.
Then,
because of that,
you're getting hyphen,
hyphen and MP.
Then fighting will immediately Go on,
take next to character.
Why?
Then why is going to start into this variable after that year by them?
Let's could this land once?
So why excluding?
Now you're printing this variable currently the value which is there in your each car
preventable is white,
That's where getting white.
Likewise,
it goto opinion,
right?
As in that you just know printed am I mean with help off your Luke.
Offer that again.
Your pattern will try to get next character from your string.
But you don't have anything.
All characters are over.
That's why you put.
Then we come back.
Come out from your low on after loop If you have any lines,
those lines will excuse,
right?
Nothing.
So days print the statement I want to repeat.
That's why that line should be there under this for Luke.
That's why I'm providing some space.
Suppose if I write one more line drink.
We are working with loops.
No,
see that this line will exclude only once when it is going to exclude that one time is
offer completely excursion off your loop because this print statement is outside of your
look.
There is no relation between this line.
And you're far,
Lou.
So in case if you have a relation between this for lope on this line,
this line should be there inside off your loop.
If you want to write this last line inside off your loop,
you have to provide some space on the lines which are there under your loop.
Should house same space for each and every line.
First,
let me run it and see the output.
So these last linear getting only once because that is the not depart off your loop.
It is outside off your look,
only the lines which are there under your loop.
Those lines will execute right now.
I wondered that line also inside off my look then right here for all your lines.
Same space,
right?
So that these two lines are there now under the would look.
Now you're Luke will repeat these two lines based on how many characters you in your string
.
So six characters.
Now,
these two lines we are going to repeat six times.
See that?
That's it,
right?
Fine.
No.
Let me go with one simple example.
As off No June dark.
I have a A list which consist off some values.
Otherwise,
you can also really,
What list?
From your command line.
Right.
Using your level input.
Enter your list off.
Alice.
You contribute as off.
No,
I'm taking my list.
I don't know what of the values are there in my list.
Okay.
Maybe any number of values?
No.
My requirement.
These.
I want to brink all the values from your loop from your list.
But first,
let me print that for each in your my list.
Then let me print each right?
Yes,
I'm printing.
Now I'm able to get one by one value,
but before printing,
I want to decide whether it is a even number or number.
If it is even number,
I want to print your number.
Then even if it is our number,
I want to print your number and then are right.
So that's why what I'm doing is before printing.
I am finding remainder reminder with two so each percentile to and you've reminder value if
it is equal.
So you know I can say that That is a even number Now,
guys,
disciplined these under your youth.
Be clear If this condition is satisfied,
then only I want to print this line.
That's why I'm writing this line under You were if condition.
So.
If it is Jiro,
then then I want to write hyphen iPhone.
Let Mary deaf string.
That's better.
So whatever the variable you have,
each he's even Nothing is else means Reminder is not in question zero.
Then I can say you are Number then is our simple example.
But it is useful.
Why means I'm writing number off lines inside off your loop.
Now all these lines are going to repeat based on how many violence you have in your list as
off.
No,
this is a list.
It may be a list or string bought couple.
For time being No.
One,
you can see the output Frieze Art 47 30 47.
Yes,
it's working perfectly.
Right?
They try to understand this loop concept by practicing again and again.
Same court.
See,
while writing your toe Think what we are doing.
What is that?
Step Your loop is performing right?
If you are able to think about it,
then you can easily understand your look.
Seeing your real time loops are very,
very important,
right?
So well,
you know you're going to write some 100 lines off for some script.
So if you're going to write some 100 lines are 200 lines off by transcript,
then definitely are going to use if conditions and loops.
Max.
Okay.
Thank you for watching this video on.
One more thing is we have a loop as well,
but this will discuss later.
So,
actually,
why?
Loop is used to exclude a block off statements repeatedly until a given condition is
satisfied.
As I don't Don't go with your while.
You just think I would look for low,
Okay.
And we'll discuss award your while loop later.
Thank you.
Bye.